 AIA
®
 Document A105TM – 2017
Standard Short Form of Agreement Between Owner and
Contractor
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
1
ADDITIONS AND DELETIONS:
The author of this document
has added information
needed for its completion.
The author may also have
revised the text of the
original AIA standard form.
An Additions and Deletions
Report that notes added
information as well as
revisions to the standard
form text is available from
the author and should be
reviewed.
This document has important
legal consequences.
Consultation with an
attorney is encouraged with
respect to its completion
or modification.
ELECTRONIC COPYING of any
portion of this AIA® Document
to another electronic file is
prohibited and constitutes a
violation of copyright laws
as set forth in the footer of
this document.
AGREEMENT made as of the « 14th » day of «February » in the year «2023 »
(In words, indicate day, month and year.)
BETWEEN the Owner:
(Name, legal status, address and other information)
Mason Technologies Inc.
517 Commack Rd.
Deer Park, NY 11729
and the Contractor:
(Name, legal status, address and other information)
Turner Construction Company
66 Hudson Boulevard, 35th Floor
New York, NY 10001
for the following Project:
(Name, location and detailed description)
77 Water - Mason Technologies Changes – Suite 220377 Water Street
New York, NY 10005«»
The Architect:
(Name, legal status, address and other information)
Loffredo Brooks Architect P.C.
118 W 22nd St #4
New York, NY 10011
The Owner and Contractor agree as follows.
 
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
2
TABLE OF ARTICLES
1 THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
2 DATE OF COMMENCEMENT AND SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION
3 CONTRACT SUM
4 PAYMENTS
5 INSURANCE
6 GENERAL PROVISIONS
7 OWNER
8 CONTRACTOR
9 ARCHITECT
10 CHANGES IN THE WORK
11 TIME
12 PAYMENTS AND COMPLETION
13 PROTECTION OF PERSONS AND PROPERTY
14 CORRECTION OF WORK
15 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
16 TERMINATION OF THE CONTRACT
17 OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS
ARTICLE 1 THE CONTRACT DOCUMENTS
The Contractor shall complete the Work described in the Contract Documents for the Project. The Contract
Documents consist of
.1 this Agreement signed by the Owner and Contractor;
.2 the drawings and specifications prepared by the Architect, dated « », and enumerated as follows:
Drawings:
Number Title Date

Specifications:
Section Title Pages

.3 addenda prepared by the Architect as follows:
Number Date Pages

.4 written orders for changes in the Work, pursuant to Article 10, issued after execution of this
Agreement; and 
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
3
.5 other documents, if any, identified as follows:
The Contractor’s Assumptions and Clarifications from Contractor’s proposal dated February 22,
2023, (attached hereto as Exhibit A), which shall govern over any inconsistent term in any of the
Contract Documents.
The Document List dated February 7, 2023 attached hereto as Exhibit B.
The Trade Cost Breakdown dated February 17, 2023, attached hereto as Exhibit C.

ARTICLE 2 DATE OF COMMENCEMENT AND SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION
§ 2.1 The Contract Time is the number of calendar days available to the Contractor to substantially complete the
Work.
§ 2.2 Date of Commencement:
Unless otherwise set forth below, the date of commencement shall be the date of this Agreement.
(Insert the date of commencement if other than the date of this Agreement.)
« February 14, 2023 »
§ 2.3 Substantial Completion:
Subject to adjustments of the Contract Time as provided in the Contract Documents, the Contractor shall achieve
Substantial Completion, as defined in Section 12.5, of the entire Work:
(Check the appropriate box and complete the necessary information.)
[ « » ] Not later than « » ( « » ) calendar days from the date of commencement.
[ « » ] By the following date: «April 11, 2023 »
ARTICLE 3 CONTRACT SUM
§ 3.1 The Contract Sum shall include all items and services necessary for the proper execution and completion of
the Work. Subject to additions and deductions in accordance with Article 10, the Contract Sum is:
Six Thousand Five Hundred Ninety-Five Dollars ($6,595)
§ 3.1.1 Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the original Contract Sum set forth in Section 4.1 is not
subject to audit by the Owner and the Owner hereby waives its right to inspect the Contractor’s books and records
with respect to the costs encompassed under the original Contract Sum, except to the extent related to any sales tax
exemption. To preserve such confidentiality, for all payment applications seeking reimbursement under the original
Contract Sum, the Owner will receive lien waivers in dollar format from the Contractor and in percentage format
from the Subcontractors and vendors.
§ 3.1.2 Change Order Markups
For additive Changes in the Work as provided in Article 10 in addition to reimbursement for the net increase in
direct subcontracted costs and any self-performed work approved by the Owner (“Direct Work Increase”), the
Contractor shall be reimbursed as follows:
(a) General Conditions shall be ten (10%) of the Direct Work Increase (excluding the portion of Direct Work related
to self-performed work) (the “General Conditions Increase”; together with the Direct Work Increase, the “Cost of
the Work Increase”);
(b) Contractor’s Fee shall be two and three-quarters percent (2.75%) of the Cost of the Work Increase; and
(c) general liability insurance shall be at the rate of one and ninety-seven hundredths’ percent (1.97%) of the Cost of
the Work Increase and Fee (such rate is based on the work being strictly interior fit out and may be changed by
Modification if the scope is changed to include exterior work such as roof, terrace, windows, exterior wall, etc.);
The derivation of the Change Order markup percentages above shall not be subject to audit by Owner; provided,
however, the Direct Work Increase and application of the above mark-up percentages for any given Change Order
shall be subject to audit by Owner unless and until any lump sum amount is agreed upon as compensation for such
Change Order. 
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
4
§ 3.1.3 The Subcontractor mark-up on Changes shall be fifteen percent (15%) of the sum of the Subcontractor’s
direct cost for labor (including labor burden) and material (including tax).
§ 3.2 For purposes of payment, the Contract Sum includes the following values related to portions of the Work: See
Trade Cost Breakdown attached hereto as Exhibit C.
(Itemize the Contract Sum among the major portions of the Work.)
Portion of the Work Value

§ 3.3 The Contract Sum is based upon the following alternates, if any, which are described in the Contract
Documents and hereby accepted by the Owner:
(Identify the accepted alternates. If the bidding or proposal documents permit the Owner to accept other alternates
subsequent to the execution of this Agreement, attach a schedule of such other alternates showing the amount for
each and the date when that amount expires.)
« »
§ 3.4 Allowances, if any, included in the Contract Sum are as follows:
(Identify each allowance.)
Item Price

§ 3.5 Unit prices, if any, are as follows:
(Identify the item and state the unit price and quantity limitations, if any, to which the unit price will be applicable.)
Item Units and Limitations Price per Unit ($0.00)

ARTICLE 4 PAYMENTS
§ 4.1 Based on Contractor’s Applications for Payment certified by the Architect, the Owner shall pay the
Contractor, in accordance with Article 12, as follows:
(Insert below timing for payments and provisions for withholding retainage, if any.)
«Provided that an Application for Payment is received by no later than the 25th day of a month (for work completed
and forecasted to the end of the month), the Owner shall make payment of the approved amount to the Contractor
not later than the 25th day of the following month. If an Application for Payment is received by the Architect after
the date fixed above, payment shall be made by the Owner not later than thirty (30) days after the Architect receives
the Application for Payment. The Owner shall notify the Contractor within twelve (12) business days of receipt of
the Application for Payment of the Owner’s decision to approve or disapprove all or a portion of the Application for
Payment. Contractor’s Application for Payment to the extent speaking of completed Work shall be deemed to mean
completed and forecasted work. Further, if the AIA G702/G703 Application for Payment is used, the certification
therein shall be deemed deleted and replaced with the following:
“The undersigned Contractor certifies that to the best of the Contractor's knowledge, information, and belief the
Work covered by this Application for Payment has been performed or completed in accordance with the Contract
Documents, that the Contractor has paid or will pay subcontractors amounts due in accordance with the subcontract
terms and conditions for Work for which previous Applications for Payment were issued and payments received
from the Owner and that the current payment shown herein is now due.”
§ 4.1.2 No retainage shall be withheld on this project.
§ 4.2 Payments due and unpaid under the Contract Documents shall bear interest from the date payment is due at the
rate of two percent (2%) per month or fraction of a month on the unpaid balance.
(Insert rate of interest agreed upon, if any.) 
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
5
ARTICLE 5 INSURANCE
§ 5.1 The Contractor shall maintain the following types and limits of insurance until the expiration of the period for
correction of Work as set forth in Section 14.2, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 5.1:
§ 5.1.1 Commercial General Liability insurance for the Project, written on an occurrence form, with policy limits of not
less than «two million dollars » ($ « two million dollars » ) each occurrence, «four million dollars » ($
«4,000,000 » ) general aggregate, and « two million dollars » ($ « $2,000,000 » ) aggregate for products-completed
operations hazard.
§ 5.1.2 Automobile Liability covering vehicles owned, and non-owned vehicles used, by the Contractor, with policy
limits of not less than « Two Million Dollars » ($ «$2,000,000 » ) per accident, for bodily injury, death of any
person, and property damage arising out of the ownership, maintenance, and use of those motor vehicles along with
any other statutorily required automobile coverage.
§ 5.1.3 The Contractor may achieve the required limits and coverage for Commercial General Liability and
Automobile Liability through a combination of primary and excess or umbrella liability insurance, provided that
such primary and excess or umbrella insurance policies in follow form. Excess Liability Insurance/Umbrella Form
$10,000,000 and will be follow form endorsed to “drop down” to become primary in the event primary limits are
reduced or aggregate limits are exhausted.
§ 5.1.4 Workers’ Compensation at statutory limits.
§ 5.1.5 Employers’ Liability with policy limits not less than « Two Million Dollars » ($ « » ) each accident, «
Two Million Dollars » ($ ««$2,000,000 » ) each employee, and « Two Million Dollars » ($ « «$2,000,000 »
) policy limit.
§ 5.1.6 Except for Worker’s compensation, the Owner shall be named as an additional insured under such policies.
§ 5.1.7 Other Insurance Provided by the Contractor
(List below any other insurance coverage to be provided by the Contractor and any applicable limits.)
Coverage Limits
§ 5.2 The Owner shall be responsible for purchasing and maintaining property insurance (including builder’s risk)
on an “all risk” policy form to cover the value of the Owner’s property, including any Work provided under this
Agreement, and the Contractor and subcontractors of all tiers on the Projct shall be named as additional insureds
under such policies. Coverage at minimum shall include flood, windstorm, earthquake, mold, terrorism, and glass
breakage, and such policy will not contain a water infiltration exclusion or restriction. The Contractor is entitled to
receive an increase in the Contract Sum equal to the insurance proceeds related to a loss for damage to the Work
covered by the Owner’s property insurance. The Owner shall be responsible for any deductibles, or contains
coverage gaps, sublimits or exclusions in the policy. The Owner will provide a certificate of insurance and a
summary of coverage’s including all endorsements and exclusions prior to commencement of the work. Once the
policy is received, the Owner shall provide a copy of such policy to the Contractor.
§ 5.2.1 Should the Owner elect not to provide Builder’s Risk insurance coverage protecting the interests of
Contractor; the Contractor may procure such insurance in a manner that it deems appropriate. Owner acknowledges
that reimbursement of costs to Contractor, for such insurance, shall include reimbursement of the cost of such
Builder’s Risk insurance coverage that may become payable in connection with the Builder’s Risk coverage, which
shall be invoiced and payable, without retention or retainage of any kind, at the time the first application for
payment after such cost is incurred. Owner further acknowledges extensions of time, as permitted by this
Agreement, may result in additional Builder’s Risk insurance costs for which Contractor shall be reimbursed and
entitled to a Change Order and that such additional costs shall be invoiced and payable, without retention or
retainage of any kind, at the time the first application for payment after such cost is incurred. The Owner shall
reimburse the Contractor as a Cost of the Work for costs not covered because of deductibles applicable to such
Builder’s Risk insurance. 
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
6
§ 5.3 The Contractor shall obtain an endorsement to its Commercial General Liability insurance policy to provide
coverage for the Contractor’s obligations under Section 8.12.
§ 5.4 Prior to commencement of the Work, each party shall provide certificates of insurance showing their
respective coverages.
§ 5.5 The Owner and Contractor waive all rights against (1) each other and any of their subcontractors, suppliers,
agents, and employees, each of the other; and (2) the Architect, Architect’s consultants, and any of their agents and
employees, for damages caused by fire or other causes of loss to the extent covered by property insurance or other
insurance applicable to the Project, except such rights as they have to the proceeds of such insurance.
ARTICLE 6 GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6.1 The Contract
The Contract represents the entire and integrated agreement between the parties and supersedes prior negotiations,
representations or agreements, either written or oral. The Contract may be amended or modified only by a written
modification in accordance with Article 10.
§ 6.2 The Work
The term “Work” means the construction and services required by the Contract Documents, and includes all other
labor, materials, equipment, and services provided, or to be provided, by the Contractor to fulfill the Contractor’s
obligations.
§ 6.3 Intent
The intent of the Contract Documents is to include all items necessary for the proper execution and completion of
the Work by the Contractor. The Contract Documents are complementary, and what is required by one shall be as
binding as if required by all.
§ 6.4 Ownership and Use of Architect’s Drawings, Specifications and Other Documents
Documents prepared by the Architect are instruments of the Architect’s service for use solely with respect to this
Project. The Architect shall retain all common law, statutory, and other reserved rights, including the copyright. The
Contractor, subcontractors, sub-subcontractors, and suppliers are authorized to use and reproduce the instruments of
service solely and exclusively for execution of the Work. The instruments of service may not be used for other
Projects or for additions to this Project outside the scope of the Work without the specific written consent of the
Architect.
§ 6.5 Electronic Notice
Written notice under this Agreement may be given by one party to the other by email as set forth below.
(Insert requirements for delivering written notice by email such as name, title, and email address of the recipient,
and whether and how the system will be required to generate a read receipt for the transmission.)
« »
ARTICLE 7 OWNER
§ 7.1 Information and Services Required of the Owner
§ 7.1.1 If requested by the Contractor, the Owner shall furnish all necessary surveys and a legal description of the
site.
§ 7.1.2 Except for construction permits and related fees under Section 8.7.1 that are the responsibility of the
Contractor, the Owner shall obtain and pay for building permit and other necessary approvals, easements,
assessments, and charges.
§ 7.1.3 Prior to commencement of the Work, at the written request of the Contractor, the Owner shall furnish to the
Contractor reasonable evidence that the Owner has made financial arrangements to fulfill the Owner’s obligations
under the Contract. The Contractor shall have no obligation to commence the Work until the Owner provides such
evidence. 
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
7
§ 7.2 Owner’s Right to Stop the Work
If the Contractor fails to correct Work which is not in accordance with the Contract Documents, the Owner may
direct the Contractor in writing to stop the Work until the correction is made.
§ 7.3 Owner’s Right to Carry Out the Work
If the Contractor defaults or neglects to carry out the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents and fails
within a seven day period after receipt of written notice from the Owner to commence and continue correction of
such default or neglect with diligence and promptness, the Owner may, without prejudice to other remedies, correct
such deficiencies. In such case, the Architect may withhold or nullify a Certificate for Payment in whole or in part,
to the extent reasonably necessary to reimburse the Owner for the cost of correction, provided the actions of the
Owner and amounts charged to the Contractor were approved by the Architect.
§ 7.4 Owner’s Right to Perform Construction and to Award Separate Contracts
§ 7.4.1 The Owner reserves the right to perform construction or operations related to the Project with the Owner’s
own forces, and to award separate contracts in connection with other portions of the Project.
§ 7.4.2 The Contractor shall coordinate and cooperate with the Owner’s own forces and separate contractors
employed by the Owner.
ARTICLE 8 CONTRACTOR
§ 8.1 Review of Contract Documents and Field Conditions by Contractor
§ 8.1.1 Execution of the Contract by the Contractor is a representation that the Contractor has visited the site,
become familiar with the visually observable conditions under which the Work is to be performed, and correlated
personal observations with requirements of the Contract Documents.
§ 8.1.2 The Contractor shall carefully study and compare the Contract Documents with each other and with
information furnished by the Owner. Before commencing activities, the Contractor shall (1) take field measurements
and verify field conditions; (2) carefully compare this and other information known to the Contractor with the
Contract Documents; and (3) promptly report errors, inconsistencies, or omissions discovered to the Architect.
§ 8.2 Contractor’s Construction Schedule
The Contractor, promptly after being awarded the Contract, shall prepare and submit for the Owner’s and
Architect’s information a Contractor’s construction schedule for the Work.
§ 8.3 Supervision and Construction Procedures
§ 8.3.1 The Contractor shall supervise and direct the Work using the Contractor’s best skill and attention. The
Contractor shall be solely responsible for and have control over construction means, methods, techniques,
sequences, and procedures, and for coordinating all portions of the Work.
§ 8.3.2 The Contractor, as soon as practicable after award of the Contract, shall furnish in writing to the Owner,
through the Architect, the names of subcontractors or suppliers for each portion of the Work. The Contractor shall
not contract with any subcontractor or supplier to whom the Owner or Architect have made a timely and reasonable
objection.
§ 8.4 Labor and Materials
§ 8.4.1 Unless otherwise provided in the Contract Documents, the Contractor shall provide and pay for labor,
materials, equipment, tools, utilities, transportation, and other facilities and services necessary for proper execution
and completion of the Work.
§ 8.4.2 The Contractor shall enforce strict discipline and good order among the Contractor’s employees and other
persons carrying out the Contract Work. The Contractor shall not permit employment of unfit persons or persons not
skilled in tasks assigned to them.
§ 8.5 Warranty
The Contractor warrants to the Owner for a period of one year from Substantial Completion that: (1) materials and
equipment furnished under the Contract will be new and of good quality unless otherwise required or permitted by
the Contract Documents; (2) the Work will be free from defects not inherent in the quality required or permitted; and
(3) the Work will conform to the requirements of the Contract Documents. Any material or equipment warranties 
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
8
required by the Contract Documents shall be issued in the name of the Owner, or shall be transferable to the Owner,
and shall commence in accordance with Section 12.5. Other than the foregoing warranty, Contractor makes no other
warranty, representation or guaranty and assumes no other responsibility or liability for defective Work. Longer
term warranties that may be required by the Contract Documents shall be provided directly by the relevant
subcontractor, vendor or manufacturer directly to Owner and Contractor shall have no responsibility for such
extended warranties. For avoidance of doubt, any design services furnished under this Agreement are excluded from
any and all warranties, expressed or implied, it being understood that such services shall be subject to an ordinary
standard of care.
§ 8.6 Taxes
The Contractor shall pay all applicable sales, consumer, use, and similar taxes that are legally required when the
Contract is executed. Owner determines the Project is a capital improvement, the Owner shall provide the
Contractor with a fully completed and executed New York State Department of Taxation and Finance Form ST-124,
Certificate of Capital Improvement no later than fifteen (15) days after commencement of the Work.
§ 8.7 Permits, Fees and Notices
§ 8.7.1 The Owner shall obtain and pay for the building permit and other permits and governmental fees, licenses,
and inspections necessary for proper execution and completion of the Work; provided the Contractor shall pick-up
the building permit.
§ 8.7.2 The Contractor shall comply with and give notices required by agencies having jurisdiction over the Work. If
the Contractor performs Work knowing it to be contrary to applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, codes, rules and
regulations, or lawful orders of public authorities that pertain to the construction means and methods as opposed to
design, the Contractor shall assume full responsibility for such Work and shall bear the attributable costs. The
Contractor shall promptly notify the Architect in writing of any known inconsistencies in the Contract Documents
with such governmental laws, rules, and regulations.
§ 8.8 Submittals
The Contractor shall promptly review and submit to the Architect shop drawings, product data, samples, and similar
submittals required by the Contract Documents. Shop drawings, product data, samples, and similar submittals are
not Contract Documents.
§ 8.9 Use of Site
The Contractor shall confine operations at the site to areas permitted by law, ordinances, permits, the Contract
Documents, and the Owner.
§ 8.10 Cutting and Patching
The Contractor shall be responsible for cutting, fitting, or patching required to complete the Work or to make its
parts fit together properly.
§ 8.11 Cleaning Up
The Contractor shall keep the premises and surrounding area free from accumulation of debris and trash related to
the Work. At the completion of the Work, the Contractor shall remove its tools, construction equipment, machinery,
and surplus material; and shall properly dispose of waste materials.
§ 8.12 Indemnification
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Contractor shall indemnify and hold harmless the Owner and agents and
employees of any of them (but excluding any design professionals), from and against thirty party claims, damages,
losses and expenses, including but not limited to attorneys’ fees, arising out of or resulting from performance of the
Work, provided that such claim, damage, loss, or expense is attributable to bodily injury, sickness, disease or death,
or to injury to or destruction of tangible property (other than the Work itself), but only to the extent caused by the
negligent acts or omissions of the Contractor, a subcontractor, anyone directly or indirectly employed by them or
anyone for whose acts they may be liable, regardless of whether or not such claim, damage, loss or expense is
caused in part by a party indemnified hereunder.
ARTICLE 9 ARCHITECT
§ 9.1 The Architect will provide administration of the Contract as described in the Contract Documents. The
Architect will have authority to act on behalf of the Owner only to the extent provided in the Contract Documents. 
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
9
§ 9.2 The Architect will visit the site at intervals appropriate to the stage of construction to become generally
familiar with the progress and quality of the Work.
§ 9.3 The Architect will not have control over or charge of, and will not be responsible for, construction means,
methods, techniques, sequences, or procedures, or for safety precautions and programs in connection with the Work,
since these are solely the Contractor’s responsibility. The Architect will not be responsible for the Contractor’s
failure to carry out the Work in accordance with the Contract Documents.
§ 9.4 Based on the Architect’s observations and evaluations of the Contractor’s Applications for Payment, the
Architect will review and certify the amounts due the Contractor.
§ 9.5 The Architect has authority to reject Work that does not conform to the Contract Documents.
§ 9.6 The Architect will promptly review and approve or take appropriate action upon Contractor’s submittals, but
only for the limited purpose of checking for conformance with information given and the design concept expressed
in the Contract Documents.
§ 9.7 On written request from either the Owner or Contractor, the Architect will promptly interpret and decide
matters concerning performance under, and requirements of, the Contract Documents.
§ 9.8 Interpretations and decisions of the Architect will be consistent with the intent of, and reasonably inferable
from the Contract Documents, and will be in writing or in the form of drawings. When making such interpretations
and decisions, the Architect will endeavor to secure faithful performance by both Owner and Contractor, will not
show partiality to either and will not be liable for results of interpretations or decisions rendered in good faith.
§ 9.9 The Architect’s duties, responsibilities, and limits of authority as described in the Contract Documents shall
not be changed without written consent of the Owner, Contractor, and Architect. Consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
ARTICLE 10 CHANGES IN THE WORK
§ 10.1 The Owner, without invalidating the Contract, may order changes in the Work within the general scope of the
Contract, consisting of additions, deletions or other revisions, and the Contract Sum and Contract Time shall be
adjusted accordingly, in writing. If the Owner and Contractor cannot agree to a change in the Contract Sum, the
Owner shall pay the Contractor its actual cost plus the markups set forth in Section 3.1.2 for fee, general conditions
and insurance, and Section 3.1.3 for subcontractors.
§ 10.2 The Architect may authorize or order minor changes in the Work that are consistent with the intent of the
Contract Documents and do not involve an adjustment in the Contract Sum or an extension of the Contract Time.
Such authorization or order shall be in writing and shall be binding on the Owner and Contractor. The Contractor
shall proceed with such minor changes promptly.
§ 10.3 If concealed or unknown physical conditions are encountered at the site that differ materially from those
indicated in the Contract Documents or from those conditions ordinarily found to exist, the Contract Sum and
Contract Time shall be subject to equitable adjustment.
ARTICLE 11 TIME
§ 11.1 Time limits stated in the Contract Documents are of the essence of the Contract.
§ 11.2 If the Contractor is delayed at any time in progress of the Work by: (1) acts or omissions of the Owner, the
Architect or a separate contractor, by changes ordered in the Work, (2) by labor disputes, fire, war, terrorism,
outbreak, epidemic, endemic and/or pandemic proportions or other causes affecting the area in which the Project is
located and/or the Contractor’s labor and/or supply chain (3) unavailability of, or inability to obtain, labor or
materials, or supply chain disruption, (4) unusual delay in deliveries, unavoidable casualties, or (5) other causes
beyond the Contractor’s reasonable control, the Contract Time and Contract Sum shall be subject to equitable
adjustment. 
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
10
§ 11.3 Costs caused by delays or by improperly timed activities or defective construction shall be borne by the
responsible party.
ARTICLE 12 PAYMENTS AND COMPLETION
§ 12.1 Contract Sum
The Contract Sum stated in this Agreement, including authorized adjustments, is the total amount payable by the
Owner to the Contractor for performance of the Work under the Contract Documents.
§ 12.2 Applications for Payment
§ 12.2.1 At least ten days before the date established for each progress payment, the Contractor shall submit to the
Architect an itemized Application for Payment for Work completed in accordance with the values stated in this
Agreement. The Application shall be supported by data substantiating the Contractor’s right to payment for changes
performed on a time and material basis as the Owner or Architect may reasonably require, such as evidence of
payments made to, and waivers of liens from, subcontractors and suppliers. Payments shall be made on account of
materials and equipment delivered and suitably stored at the site for subsequent incorporation in the Work. If
approved in advance by the Owner, payment may similarly be made for materials and equipment stored, and
protected from damage, off the site at a location agreed upon in writing.
§ 12.2.2 The Contractor warrants that title to all Work covered by an Application for Payment will pass to the
Owner no later than the time of payment. The Contractor further warrants that upon submittal of an Application for
Payment, all Work for which Certificates for Payment have been previously issued and payments received from the
Owner shall, to the best of the Contractor’s knowledge, information, and belief, be free and clear of liens, claims,
security interests, or other encumbrances adverse to the Owner’s interests.
§ 12.3 Certificates for Payment
The Architect will, within seven days after receipt of the Contractor’s Application for Payment, either (1) issue to
the Owner a Certificate for Payment in the full amount of the Application for Payment, with a copy to the
Contractor; (2) issue to the Owner a Certificate for Payment for such amount as the Architect determines is properly
due, and notify the Contractor and Owner in writing of the Architect’s reasons for withholding certification in part;
or (3) withhold certification of the entire Application for Payment, and notify the Contractor and Owner of the
Architect’s reason for withholding certification in whole. If certification or notification is not made within such
seven day period, the Contractor may, upon seven additional days’ written notice to the Owner and Architect, stop
the Work until payment of the amount owing has been received. The Contract Time and the Contract Sum shall be
equitably adjusted due to the delay.
§ 12.4 Progress Payments
§ 12.4.1 After the Architect has issued a Certificate for Payment, the Owner shall make payment in the manner
provided in the Contract Documents.
§ 12.4.2 The Contractor shall promptly pay each subcontractor and supplier, upon receipt of payment from the
Owner, an amount determined in accordance with the terms of the applicable subcontracts and purchase orders.
§ 12.4.3 Neither the Owner nor the Architect shall have responsibility for payments to a subcontractor or supplier.
§ 12.4.4 A Certificate for Payment, a progress payment, or partial or entire use or occupancy of the Project by the
Owner shall not constitute acceptance of Work not in accordance with the requirements of the Contract Documents.
§ 12.5 Substantial Completion
§ 12.5.1 Substantial Completion is the stage in the progress of the Work when the Work or designated portion
thereof is sufficiently complete in accordance with the Contract Documents so the Owner can occupy or utilize the
Work for its intended use as set forth in the Contract Documents.
§ 12.5.2 When the Contractor believes that the Work or designated portion thereof is substantially complete, it will
notify the Architect and the Architect will make an inspection to determine whether the Work is substantially
complete. When the Architect determines that the Work is substantially complete, the Architect shall prepare a
Certificate of Substantial Completion that shall establish the date of Substantial Completion, establish the
responsibilities of the Owner and Contractor, and fix the time within which the Contractor shall finish all items on
the list accompanying the Certificate. Warranties required by the Contract Documents shall commence on the date 
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
11
of Substantial Completion of the Work or designated portion thereof unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of
Substantial Completion.
§ 12.6 Final Completion and Final Payment
§ 12.6.1 Upon receipt of a final Application for Payment, the Architect will inspect the Work. When the Architect
finds the Work acceptable and the Contract fully performed, the Architect will promptly issue a final Certificate for
Payment.
§ 12.6.2 Final payment shall not become due until the Contractor submits to the Architect releases and waivers of
liens, and data establishing payment or satisfaction of of mechanic’s liens filed by Subcontractors or suppliers to
Contractor’s obligations, such as receipts, claims, security interests, or encumbrances arising out of the Contract and
the Work paid for by Owner.
§ 12.6.3 Acceptance of final payment by the Contractor, a subcontractor or supplier shall constitute a waiver of
claims by that payee except for third party bodily injury and property damage claims and those claims previously
made in writing and identified by that payee as unsettled at the time of final Application for Payment.
§ 12.7 FAILURE OF PAYMENT
§ 12.7.1 If the Owner should fail to pay the Contractor as set forth in Section 4.1, then the Contractor may suspend
the Work until payment of the amount owing has been received after providing the Owner written notice and an
opportunity to cure at least ten (10) days before the intended suspension.
ARTICLE 13 PROTECTION OF PERSONS AND PROPERTY
§ 13.1 The Contractor shall be responsible for initiating, maintaining and supervising all safety precautions and
programs, including all those required by law in connection with performance of the Contract. The Contractor shall
take reasonable precautions to prevent damage, injury, or loss to employees on the Work and other persons who may
be affected thereby, the Work and materials and equipment to be incorporated therein, and other property at the site
or adjacent thereto. The Contractor shall promptly remedy damage and loss to property caused in whole or in part by
the Contractor, or by anyone for whose acts the Contractor may be liable.
§ 13.2 If reasonable precautions will be inadequate to prevent foreseeable bodily injury or death to persons resulting
from a material or substance, including but not limited to asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB), lead paint, toxic
substances, mold, mildew, or other hazardous or contaminated materials (“Hazardous Materials”) encountered on
the site by the Contractor, the Contractor shall, upon recognizing the condition, immediately stop the Work in the
affected area and report the condition to the Owner and Architect. The Contractor shall resume Work in the affected
area upon receipt of a clean letter from the Owner’s consultant. By Change Order, the Contract Time shall be
extended appropriately and the Contract Sum shall be increased in the amount of the Construction Manager’s
reasonable additional costs of shut-down, delay and start-up.
§ 13.3 To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Owner shall indemnify and hold harmless the Contractor and
Subcontractors, and agents and employees of any of them from and against claims, damages, losses and expenses,
including but not limited to attorneys' fees, arising out of or resulting from performance thee Work in the affected
area if in fact the Hazardous Material presents the risk of bodily injury or death as described in 13.2 and has not
been rendered harmless, regardless of whether or not such loss or expenses is caused in part by a party indemnified
hereunder.
ARTICLE 14 CORRECTION OF WORK
§ 14.1 The Contractor shall promptly correct Work rejected by the Architect as failing to conform to the
requirements of the Contract Documents. The Contractor shall bear the cost of correcting such rejected Work,
including the costs of uncovering, replacement, and additional testing.
§ 14.2 In addition to the Contractor’s other obligations including warranties under the Contract, the Contractor shall,
for a period of one year after Substantial Completion, correct work not conforming to the requirements of the
Contract Documents.
§ 14.3 If the Contractor fails to correct nonconforming Work within a reasonable time, the Owner may correct it in
accordance with Section 7.3. 
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
12
ARTICLE 15 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 15.1 Assignment of Contract
Neither party to the Contract shall assign the Contract as a whole without written consent of the other.
§ 15.2 Tests and Inspections
§ 15.2.1 At the appropriate times, the Contractor shall arrange and bear cost of tests, inspections, and approvals of
portions of the Work required by the Contract Documents or by laws, statutes, ordinances, codes, rules and
regulations, or lawful orders of public authorities.
§ 15.2.2 If the Architect requires additional testing, the Contractor shall perform those tests.
§ 15.2.3 The Owner shall bear cost of tests, inspections, or approvals that do not become requirements until after the
Contract is executed. The Owner shall directly arrange and pay for tests, inspections, or approvals where building
codes or applicable laws or regulations so require, including special inspections.
§ 15.3 Governing Law
The Contract shall be governed by the law of the place where the Project is located, excluding that jurisdiction’s
choice of law rules.
ARTICLE 16 TERMINATION OF THE CONTRACT
§ 16.1 Termination by the Contractor
If the Work is stopped under Section 12.3 or 12.7 for a period of 14 days through no fault of the Contractor, the
Contractor may, upon seven additional days’ written notice to the Owner and Architect, terminate the Contract and
recover from the Owner payment for Work executed including reasonable overhead and profit, and costs incurred by
reason of such termination.
§ 16.2 Termination by the Owner for Cause
§ 16.2.1 The Owner may terminate the Contract if the Contractor
.1 repeatedly refuses or fails to supply enough properly skilled workers or proper materials;
.2 fails to make payment to subcontractors for materials or labor in accordance with the respective
agreements between the Contractor and the subcontractors;
.3 repeatedly disregards applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, codes, rules and regulations, or lawful
orders of a public authority; or
.4 is otherwise guilty of substantial breach of a provision of the Contract Documents.
§ 16.2.2 When any of the above reasons exist, the Owner, after consultation with the Architect, may without
prejudice to any other rights or remedies of the Owner and after giving the Contractor and the Contractor’s surety, if
any, seven days’ written notice and if Contractor fails to cure or diligently pursue a cure within such seven days’
period,, terminate employment of the Contractor and may
.1 take possession of the site and of all materials thereon owned by the Contractor, and
.2 finish the Work by whatever reasonable method the Owner may deem expedient.
§ 16.2.3 When the Owner terminates the Contract for one of the reasons stated in Section 16.2.1, the Contractor shall
not be entitled to receive further payment until the Work is finished.
§ 16.2.4 If the unpaid balance of the Contract Sum exceeds costs of finishing the Work, such excess shall be paid to
the Contractor. If such costs exceed the unpaid balance, the Contractor shall pay the difference to the Owner. This
obligation for payment shall survive termination of the Contract.
§ 16.3 Termination by the Owner for Convenience
The Owner may, at any time, terminate the Contract for the Owner’s convenience and without cause. The Contractor
shall be entitled to receive payment for Work executed, and costs incurred by reason of such termination, along with
reasonable overhead and profit on the Work not executed.
ARTICLE 17 OTHER TERMS AND CONDITIONS
(Insert any other terms or conditions below.)
§ 17.1 CLAIMS FOR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES 
AIA Document A105™ – 2017. Copyright © 1993, 2007 and 2017 by The American Institute of Architects. All rights reserved. WARNING: This AIA®
Document is protected by U.S. Copyright Law and International Treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this AIA® Document,
or any portion of it, may result in severe civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under the
law. This draft was produced by AIA software at 09:59:00 ET on 01/14/2019 under Order No.3669333727 which expires on 04/24/2019, and is
not for resale.
User Notes: (1296788297)
13
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Contract Documents, the Contractor and Owner waive Claims
against each other for consequential damages arising out of or relating to this Contract. This mutual waiver includes
.1 damages incurred by the Owner for rental expenses, for losses of use, income, profit, financing, business
and reputation, and for loss of management or employee productivity or of the services of such persons; and
.2 damages incurred by the Contractor for principal office expenses including the compensation of personnel
stationed there, for losses of financing, business and reputation, and for loss of profit except anticipated profit
arising directly from the Work.
This mutual waiver is also applicable, without limitation, to all consequential damages due to either party’s
termination in accordance with Article 16.
§ 17.2 EXECUTION; EFFECTIVENESS. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts all of which
shall together constitute one complete Agreement. Any such executed counterparts may be delivered by facsimile or
by electronic mail and the same shall be deemed effective as originals.
This Agreement entered into as of the day and year first written above.
(If required by law, insert cancellation period, disclosures or other warning statements above the signatures.)
« »

OWNER (Signature) CONTRACTOR (Signature)
« »« » « »« »
(Printed name and title ) (Printed name and title )
